# -*- coding: utf-8; mode: structured-text -*-

= Frequently Asked Questions =

Index: @TOC@

== General ==

=== How do I override a built-in module? ===

It may be necessary to customize the behavior implemented by an existing Wiking
(or Wiking CMS) module.  This may be achieved by defining a new module derived
from the built-in module.  This module must be exported in by your `\__init__py'
under the same name as the original module.  If the *Python* module with the
customized version of the Wiking module appears earlier in =cfg.modules= than
the Python module with its original definition (such as `wiking.cms'), the
customized module will take precedence.  Wiking distinguishes its modules just
by name.


== User Interface ==

=== How do I create an item in the main menu outside WMI? ===

The main menu in Wiking CMS is defined by the hierarchy of pages as managed
through the CMS.  Wiking CMS extensions (modules derived from
`wiking.cms.CMSExtension') may only define a submenu of the menu item of the
corresponding page as described in the following question.

=== How do I define a page submenu outside WMI? ===

Submenu may be defined by Wiking CMS extension modules (derived from
`wiking.cms.CMSExtension').  This submenu is automatically added to the main
menu (defined by the hierarchy of CMS pages) when the extension module is
active (the page using this extension is displayed).

The menu is normally defined through the attribute `CMSExtension.\_MENU'
as a sequence of `CMSExtension.MenuItem' instances.

Redefining the method `Embeddable.submenu()' (returning `wiking.MenuItem'
instances) would be a more powerful solution, but this is discouraged, since its
proper implementation is not trivial.  The menu defined through
`CMSExtension.\_MENU' can also be dynamic to certain extent, so redefining
`Embeddable.submenu()' should be rarely needed.

=== How do I add module to a WMI menu? ===

The top level menu (main sections at the top of the page) is defined by
`WikingManagementInterface.\_SECTIONS'.

A module can be added to the submenu of a concrete main section by defining
class attributes `WMI_SECTION' and `WMI_ORDER'.

=== How do I change primary link destinations in list forms? ===

Redefine `_link_provider' method of the module.

=== What is `cid' argument in `_link_provider'? ===

Column id to generate the link for.  In case a link for the whole record should
be generated, `cid' is `None'.

=== How do I display field values using a special formatting? ===

Create new virtual field with a custom data type.

=== How to localize displayed field values, e.g. float numbers? ===

Derive a new data type from the original value data type.  Then use an instance
of a class derived from `lcg.Localizable' as a return result of the type's
`_export' method.

=== How to prevent line breaking inside view field values? ===

Use non-breakable spaces instead of plain spaces.

=== How to make a nested form inside a related form? ===

In the nested form module: Make sure the form field specification referencing
to the parent form sets `codebook' argument to the parent form module.

In the parent form module: Define `bindings'.  If the nested forms items are to
be clickable, `bindings' must contain `id' argument defining the url part
string referring to the nested form items.

=== How to add a form summary text at the beginning or end of a nested form? ===

Redefine `related' method in the nested form module.


== Working with Data ==

=== How do I get the logged-in user in a field computer function? ===

Computer functions of Pytis computed fields receive the current
`wiking.PytisModule.Record' (derived from `pytis.presentation.PresentedRow') as
an argument.  This class has the method `req()' which may be used to access the
current request and its method `user()' to get the information about the current
authenticated user: `record.req().user()'.


== How do I call a database function ==

Specify the function in module's `_DB_FUNCTIONS' dictionary and then use the
module's `_call_db_function()' method to call it.


=== Is it possible to perform a muti-stage database operation atomically? ===

It is possible to use the class `pytis.data.DBTransactionDefault' and pass it as
an argument to database operations.  Wiking currently doesn't provide any higher
level interface to simplify the usage of transactions.

Using transactions can be, however, often avoided by performing the dependent
operations within the database rules and/or triggers.  This way the operations
are completely hidden from Pytis and Wiking.  This practice may lead to a
cleaner design in certain situations (better separation of the database and
application logic), but there will definitely be examples of the opposite case
so any feedback on this topic is welcome.


== Troubleshooting ==

=== The application produces strange errors after update from CVS, what's that? ===

 1. Check that you have the latest CVS versions of all other components -- lcg,
    pytis, wiking, other wiking applications.

 2. Check that the web server user has access rights to all used components.

=== Why do I get an error about a non existing database column after database creation? ===

Database objects for Wiking and all installed modules/extensions must be
initialized.

=== How to make visible resources/ from another tree? ===

Either link it into the Wiking tree or set the `resource_path' configuration
variable.
