# -*- coding: utf-8; mode: structured-text -*-

= Navigation =

Table of Contents: @TOC@


== Main Navigation Menu == menu

The main navigation menu is displayed as a row of folders at the top of the
page by default.  In a custom style, the appearance may vary significantly, but
the purpose always remains the same.  It is a list of links to the main
sections of the site.  The active item is visually emphasized.  In a text
browser (where the visual emphasis may not be supported), there is an asterisk
appended to the active item's title.  This ensures, that the user always knows
where he is at the moment.  Since the menu is repeated on each page, you may
want to it while navigating the page -- see [#skip].


== Shortcut Keys == shortcuts

There are several shortcut keys (access-keys) simplifying navigation:

  * *1* ... go to the home page
  * *2* ... skip repetitive parts (go the the actual page content)
  * *3* ... skip to the main menu
  * *9* ... enter/leave the Wiking Management Interface
  * *0* ... show the Accessibility Statement

Usage in different types of browsers:

  * Internet Explorer -- Alt + number Enter
  * Firefox 1.x, Mozilla, Netscape 7+  -- Alt + number
  * Konqueror -- press and release Ctrl, number
  * Opera -- Shift + Esc + number
  * Safari, Firefox, Mozilla, Netscape, Omniweb (on Mac OS X) -- Ctrl +
    number

Shortcut keys should not be considered the primary means of navigation.  Their
usage varies from browser to browser and some browsers don't support them at
all.  In addition, the key bindings are not standardized, so the behavior
differs from site to site.

Many assistive technologies implement their own page navigation features.  If
these features substitute the above commands, they should be always preferred.
For example the page content begins with a top level heading, thus it may be
possible to get to it using the heading navigation feature of the AT.


== Skipping Repetitive Parts == skip

Certain parts of the page are repetitive -- they appear on each page and they
usually don't change.  These repetitive parts are:

  * [#menu]
  * [#languages]
  * [#panels]

Wiking implements several features simplifying page navigation with respect to
repetitive content.

"Skip" links can be used in text browsers.  The first link at the top of the
page allows you to skip all the repetitive content.  Then each repetitive part
can be skipped individually.  

Also [#shortcuts] allow you to skip repetitive content.


== Tables of Contents ==

More complicated pages with several sections (such as this one) usually use a
Table of Contents.  Table of Contents shows the hierarchy of sections as a set
of links allowing you to jump to a selected section directly.  Each section
header also acts as a link back to the Table of Contents.  This feature may
significantly simplify page navigation in longer texts.  Give it a try right on
this page...

Some pages may use multiple Tables of Contents in different levels of
hierarchy.  In this case, the back-reference links from section headers lead
always to the nearest TOC up in the hierarchy.


== Language Selection == languages

Wiking supports serving content in multiple languages.

Selection of the most appropriate language for each user is performed
automatically based on the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_negotiation
Content Negotiation] technique.  This technique relies on the language
preference settings of your browser.  An English speaking user, for example,
should have English set as his/her primary language, plus any number of
additional languages which he/she understands with their respective precedence.

A selection algorithm is performed on each request.  If given page is available
in one of the preferred languages, the highest precedence variant is returned to
the user.  When none of the requested languages can be served, an error page
406 (Not Acceptable) is returned and the user can select one of the available
language variants manually.

Besides the automatic selection described below, user can also select the
language explicitly from the language selection menu.  This menu is displayed
in the top right corner of the page (in the default style) when there are
several language variants of the current page.  When there is just one variant,
the language selection menu is not shown.  The menu appears right after the
main navigation menu in a text browser.  Since the set of available language
variants may be different for each page, the language selection menu may differ
as well.  Current language (as well as current menu item) is emphasized
visually and marked by an asterisk in a text browser.

If "cookies" are enabled, the manually selected language will be kept as the
preferred language for further requests with even higher priority than the
browser settings.  This feature allows you to override browser settings when you
can't modify them, such as in an Internet cafe or at a public terminal.
Correct browser settings should still be the preferred solution, however.


== Panels == panels

Panels are brief information windows, which are displayed by the right hand
side in the default style.  They usually summarize the most important
information from given website.  Panels appear unchanged on each page of the
site.  For example a News panel may display the most recent news with links to
more detailed messages within the News section.

Panels can be hidden, using the "Hide panels" link (located above them).  This
setting is sticky (panels stay hidden for the following requests) when
"cookies" are enabled in the browser.  Panels can be unhidden again using the
"Show panels" link.  Of course, when a page doesn't use any panels, these links
don't appear on the page.
