# -*- coding: utf-8; mode: structured-text -*-

= Main Menu =

This module provides an overview of all available content and manages its
hierarchy and presence in the main menu (see also [navigation]).

The most important property of each item, from the technical point of view, is
its /identifier/.  It determines the address of the item as seen from outside
(the Internet).  The item "=mypage=", for example, will have the address (URI)
"\http://www.yourdomain.com/mypage/".

Each identifier is assigned a single /Module/, which is responsible for
handling its content.  For example, the most common module /Pages/ displays
ordinary pages of general (mostly) textual content.  Other modules may display
listings of latest news, registered users or other more specific content.

Switch to the corresponding module to manage the actual content available for
given item.  See the documentation of particular modules to learn more about
their purpose and how their content is managed.


== Main menu management ==

Positioning the item within the main menu can be done simply by assigning a
number in the field /Menu order/.  The items will appear in the menu according
to given order.

The items which have no number assigned will not appear in the menu, but they
can be still refered to using their identifier.  You will probably want to link
to those items from other pages to make them visible to website users.


== Published/Unpublished items ==

It is possible to control the availability of each item through the /published/
checkbox.  Items which are not published exist in the database, so it is
possible to work on their content, but they are not publically visible to the
website users.  Unpublished items only appear within the WMI.

The state of publication can be controlled independently for each language
variant.  The changes always apply just for the current language, so it is
necessary to switch the language to be able to publish/unpublish items in other
languages.


== Private items ==

Private items are only accessible to logged in users (only registered users
enabled by the administrator are able to log in).  Private item may appear in
the menu, so anyone can see that it exists, but only authorized users can visit
it.  Private items must still be published to become available for the website
visitors (these two properties are independent).
