# -*- coding: utf-8; mode: structured-text -*-

= Page Management =

Overview:

  * Page content can be directly edited as an ``LCG structured text'' document.
    The format is described in the [/_doc/lcg/structured-text formatting
    manual].

  * Images, external documents, sound recordings, videos and other types of
    additional content may be included within a page using [#attachments].

  * [modules Extension modules] can be used for embedding ``smart'' content
    within a page.

  * Pages can be arranged into a hierarchy, which is automatically respected by
    site navigation menus.

  * The content of each page can be defined in multiple language variants.

Table of Contents: @TOC@


== Main menu management ==

The main menu is generated automatically by the system according to page
hierarchy and order.  See also [navigation] for more information about menus
from the point of view of a website visitor.

Positioning a page within the main menu is controlled by certain values within
page ``Global options'' (these settings apply to all language variants of given
page).  Use the button ``Options'' in page actions menu to change these values.

The field /Parent/ defines the immediately upper page in the hierarchy.  You
can leave it blank to put the page to the top level.

The field /Menu order/ defines the order of pages at the same hierarchy level.
Pages will be ordered according to this number so that pages with lower values
will appear first.  If you leave this field blank when creating a new page, the
number will be assigned automatically to put the page to the end of the
corresponding menu hierarchy level (as set by "Parent").

If you check the /Hidden/ checkbox, the page will not appear in the main menu.
Such page can be still displayed if the user enters its explicit address (see
[#uris]) or if you create a link from some other page (recommended).  So hiding
pages only controls their presence in the menu and has no effect on security or
availability of the page itself.


== Page URIs == uris

Page URI (address of the page as seen from outside) is determined by the
/identifier/.  The page with an identifier set to "mypage", for example, will
have the followin address (URI): "\http://www.yourdomain.com/mypage"

You need to fill in a valid identifier for each new page.  It is not possible
to change the identifier later, since this would break all links to this page
from the internet (including search engines), so please think twice before
choosing an identifier.  You should also remember, that the identifier is the
same for all language variants of the page, so it is a good practise to use
English names for them (at least for multilingual sites which have an English
version).

The URIs intentionaly ignore the page hierarchy -- the page "subpage", which is
a subpage of "page" will still have the URI
"\http://www.yourdomain.com/subpage", not
"\http://www.yourdomain.com/page/subpage".  This approach allows you to make
changes in page hierarchy without breaking external links.


== Page states ==

The page state (displayed in WMI) can have one of the following values:

   * /Not published/ ... The page is not published in the current language so
     the visitors can not access it.

   * /Changed/ ... The page is published in the current language, but the
     content was modified since last publication, so visitors still get the
     previous content.

   * /OK/ ... The page is published and up to date.


== Published/unpublished pages ==

It is possible to control the availability of each page by
publishing/unpublishing it using the corresponding action buttons.  An
unpublished page exist in the database, so it is possible to work on its
content, but it is not visible to website visitors.  Unpublished pages only
appear in the WMI.

The state of publication can be controlled independently for each language
variant.  The changes always apply just for the current language, so it is
necessary to switch the language to be able to publish/unpublish items in other
languages.  This feature in fact allows you to have a different set of pages
available in each language variant of the website.


== Access control (private pages) ==

Private pages are only accessible to logged in users (only registered users
enabled by the administrator are able to log in).  A private page may appear in
the menu, so anyone can see that it exists, but only authorized users will be
able display it.  Private items must still be published to become available for
the website visitors (these two properties are independent).


== Attachments == attachments

Attachments are external files attached to pages.  You can attach images,
documents, sound recordings, videos etc.


You can manage page attachments through the item "Attachments" in the menu of
actions at the bottom of each page (this menu appears only when you are logged
in and you have the privileges for given page).  Here you can add new
attachments or edit the existing ones.

You can supply a title and description for each attachment apart from the
actual file.  Title and description are not mandatory, but it is recommended to
fill them out.  Title, if supplied, will be automatically used instead of the
filename when the attachment link is displayed on the page.  The description is
used in the automatic attchements list (see below) and as link tooltip.  Images
are displayed inline and the title and description are used as its ALT/LONGDESC
attributes.

There are two ways to use the attachments within the page content: @TOC@

=== Automatic attachment lists ===

If you leave the field ``Listed'' checked in the attachment properties, the
attachment will be listed automatically.  If you provide a title, this title
will appear in the list instead of the filename.  If you provide a description,
it will appear in the list.

Please note that the title and description are language specific texts, so when
you enter them, they are used only for the current language.  You will need to
switch the language and enter the values again to supply their multiple
language variants.

The attachment file, on the other hand, is independent on the language, so
uploading a new file changes the attachment for all language variants of the
page.


=== Explicit references ===

You can refer to any attachment by simply putting its filename into square
brackets anywhere within the page text.  Images will be automatically displayed
inline, for other file types a link will be created.  Thus a reference to a PDF
document will automatically open the document in user's browser (or PDF viewer)
and a reference to an MP3 file will start playback when the user clicks the
link.

/Example:/

When you create a new attachment by uploading a file 'image.jpg', you can
include this file within the page by the following reference:

-----
[image.jpg]
-----

Attachment links are treated as any other links within the LCG structured text
document.  You can specify an explicit title, enforce image alignment etc.  See
the [/_doc/lcg/structured-text formatting manual] for more information.

