# -*- coding: utf-8; mode: structured-text -*-

= Pages =

This module allows you to create and manage pages with generic text content
including graphics and external media.  The content itself can be directly
edited as an ``LCG structured text'' document.  The format is described in the
[/_doc/lcg/data-formats/structured-text formatting manual].

Images, external documents, sound recordings, videos and other types of
additional content may be included within a page using so called
``Attachments'' (see below).

There can be multiple language variants of each page, but only records
corresponding to the /currently selected language/ are displayed in the table.
You need to switch the language to be able to manage pages of other languages.

Use the [Mapping] module to add pages to the main menu.

The table shows ``state'' of each page.  This can be one of the following three
values:

   * /Missing/ ... page is not defined in the current language.

   * /Changed/ ... page content was modified, but the changes were not yet
     published, so visitors still get the previous content.

   * /Ok/ ... the page exists and is up to date.

A ``missing'', page can be created either directly by editing it, or it may be
more convenient to use the ``translate'' action, which lets you choose the
source language.  The content is then prefilled and you create the page text by
overwriting the original text by its translation.

== Attachments ==

Attachments are external files attached to pages.  You can attach images,
documents, sound recordings, videos etc.  If you display page details (clicking
on page title in the list), you will also see the list of all existing
attachments for this page.  There you can add new attachments or edit the
existing ones.

Attachments can be used within the page content in the following two ways:

  * Automatic list at the bottom of the page.

  * Explicit reference in the page content.

=== Automatic list of attachments ===

If you leave the field ``Listed'' checked in the attachment properties, the
attachment will be listed automatically.  If you provide a title, this title
will appear in the list instead of the filename.  If you provide a description,
it will appear in the list.

Please note that the title and description are language specific texts, so when
you enter them, they are used only for the current language.  You will need to
switch the language and enter the values again to supply their multiple
language variants.

The attachment file, on the other hand, is independent on the language, so
uploading a new file changes the attachment for all language variants of the
page.


=== Explicit references ===

You can refer to any attachment by simply putting its filename into square
brackets anywhere within the page text.  Images will be automatically displayed
inline, for other file types a link will be created.  Thus a reference to a PDF
document will automatically open the document in user's browser (or PDF viewer)
and a reference to an MP3 file will start playback when the user clicks on the
link.

/Example:/

When you create a new attachment by uploading a file 'image.jpg', you can
include this file within the page by the following reference:

-----
[image.jpg]
-----

If you supply title and description, these values will always be used
meaningfully -- as a link label/description or image ALT/LONGDESC tags.
Attachment references are treated as any other links in an LCG structured text
document, so you can also redefine the label or set image allignment.  See the
[/_doc/lcg/data-formats/structured-text formatting manual] for complete
information.
