# -*- coding: utf-8; mode: structured-text -*-

= Wiking Management Interface =

You can imagine the Wiking Management Interface (WMI) as a back door to the
system, which allows the administrator to see and modify all the data which
influence the final content, look and logic of the website.  Many management
tasks (such as text modifications) can be done directly from the website
without entering the WMI, but many other aspects can only be changed here.

The management interface provides uniform access to all portal data through
"database" views.  These data are presented as table records, which can be
created, modified and deleted by the administrator.  This approach may seem a
little rigid, but the great advantage is the resulting consistence of the user
interface.

/Important:/ The Wiking Management Interface allows you to switch to any of the
configured languages at any time, as oposed to the normal website view, where
only languages, for which the content actually exists, are available.  See
[#languages] to learn how to configure the available languages.  When you view
a content listing of a particular module in WMI, only items corresponding to
the current language are shown, if the items are language dependent.  For
language independent content, all items are shown, regardless the current
language.

== WMI Modules ==

The interface is devided into four main sections, where each of the sections
provides a set of so called "modules" for management of different aspects of
the website:

WMI sections and their modules: @TOC@

=== Content ===

==== Pages ====

Manage available pages, their visibility, hierarchy and content.  The rules are
the same as when modifying a page outside WMI (see [pages]).

==== Attachments ====

Provides an overview of all attachments (external files) used within pages.
You will, however, most often manage atachments through the [pages pages] to
which they belong.

==== Panels ====

"Panels" are small boxes with additional information which are usually
displayed by the side of the main page content.  The main content changes for
different pages, but the panels remain unchanged.

There may be arbitrary textual content on each panel, but probably the most
practical feature of panels is that they can display items of an extension
module used in some page.  For example the module [modules#news] will display
recent news on the panel.  You can also define how many items are displayed.

There may be a different set of panels for each language variant of the
website.  Only panels for the /currently selected language/ are displayed, so
you need to switch the language to be able to manage panels for a different
language.

The order of panels on the page is determined by the ``Order'' number.

==== News ====

See [modules].

==== Planner ====

See [modules].


=== Look & Feel ===

==== Stylesheets ====

This module allows you to manage the cascading stylesheets used for your Wiking
site.  Stylesheets, together with Color Themes (see below) allow you to customize
the appearance of your Wiking site.

It is possible to edit the stylesheets directly, however this is only
encouraged if you know CSS and Wiking stylesheet handling details.  The primary
intended use of this module for most website administrators is management of
predefined Wiking stylesheets.  There are several stylesheets preinstalled with
the system.  Other may be created and shared by the Wiking user community.

Management is quite simple -- you can activate or deactivate any stylesheet.
You will immediately see the results.  You can add your own stylesheets and
override certain settings of other stylesheets.  The stylesheets should only
use symbolic color names defined by color themes to provide full color theming
support.

The stylesheet named 'default.css' should not be edited, since its contents is
actually not accessible through the database.

==== Color Themes ====

Color themes allow the simplest way of appearance customisation.  You must go
to your site configuration to activate one of the themes defined in this
module.

This module manages the set of available color themes.  Several themes are
included in the default installation.  Other themes may be created by the
Wiking user commutnity and shared.  You can also create your own themes.

The final appearance is determined by the combination of active stylesheet(s)
and the selected color theme.


=== User Management ===

==== Users ====

Manage registered users and their access rights.

=== Setup ===

==== Configuration ====

Modify the global site configuration, such as site title and other information,
security options, current color theme etc.

==== Languages ==== languages

This module allows you to manage the set of available languages.  You can add
any language as it's lowercase ISO 639-1 Alpha-2 language code.

The configured languages become automatically available for content creation.

See the chapter [navigation#languages Language selection] of Wiking Users Guide
for more information how multiple language variants are served to website
visitors.

