# -*- coding: utf-8; mode: structured-text -*-

= Introduction =

Table of Contents: @TOC@

== Overview ==

Wiking is a content management system which was designed to produce highly
accessible web sites. You can manage your web site using a web browser.

Most important features:

  * Accessibility for website visitors
  * Accessible content management and authoring
  * Support for internationalization and multilingual content
  * Conformance to W3C and other relevant standards 

[http://www.greebsoft.org/lcg LCG] is used to generate accessibile content.
Wiking comes with a set of predefined style-sheets and themes to achieve a
configurable attractive look without disturbing this accessibility.  See
[accessibility] for more information.

The concept of content creation using "structured text" (generalized markup
derived from the well-known wiki formatting) proved to be well usable for
people without technical background.  Also, together with an accessible user
interface, this makes Wiking a suitable content management tool for blind
people or people with other handicaps.

== Technology ==

Wiking is written in Python and is based on two other important components:

 * *LCG* ... provides content abstraction, internationalization support and
   html generation (see [http://www.freebsoft.org/lcg|LCG project website] for
   more information).

 * *Pytis* ... provides data abstraction, modularization and database access.

In fact, Wiking is nothing else than a web interface to the Pytis toolkit and
an application built on top of this toolkit.  The actual CMS logic resides in
modules and the engine itself is very tiny piece of code.  This makes the
system easily extensible and maintainable.

The current implementation runs on Apache web server (over mod_python) and
stores its data in the PostgreSQL database.  In theory, these components could
be replaced, however.


== History ==

The first prototype of Wiking was released sometimes in late 2003.  It was
written in Perl and it served as a platform for experimenting with web content
accessibility and design of a user interface which is intuitive, remains
visually attractive and provides all the features one expects from a
``typical'' web portal.  The CMS itself was intentionally kept very simplistic
since it was still considered a prototype, but many important features, such as
multilingual support or two-phase publication process were already included.
It evolved slowly for about three years and ended up in June 2006 with the
version number 0.3.12.  The 0.3.x version will be maintained, but no new
features will be added.

The development of a new version written in Python began in June 2006 and the
primary reason was the challenge to use the LCG to provide an accessible web
interface to the Pytis toolkit.


== Multilingual support ==

You can manage multiple language variants of your content and Wiking defines
the logic needed for serving it.  See [navigation#languages] for more
information.

Wiking user interface is currently translated into the following languages:

  * Czech
  * English
  * Polish
  * Spanish (partial)

The translations marked as /partial/ include all messages needed for serving
the content, but don't include translations for the management interface.

Adding support for other languages is simple (using the GNU gettext framework)
and we welcome anyone willing to contribute translations.  Please [#contact
contact] us for instructions.

== Contact == contact

Wiking project homepage:

  * http://www.freebsoft.org/wiking

Mailing-list:

  * wiking@lists.freebsoft.org
  * Subscribe at http://lists.freebsoft.org/mailman/listinfo/wiking

Author:

  * Tomáš Cerha -- cerha@brailcom.org